# Card Type: Form

## Installation
Install this folder in the data dirrectory of your MSE installation, and reboot
MSE if it's already running.

## What is a Form?

### Flavor Space

In short, a form is a new way to represent a physical attack preformed by the 
player/"planeswalker" in game(preferred over "Let's take this outside").

Magic already has ways to represent most things in lore as cardboard gamepieces;
instants and sorceries allow you to throw the magic, lands let you extract the
essence of the multiverse, creatures allow you to summon beasts and what not to 
fight by your side, artifacts let you play with trinkets from urza's gift shop, 
and enchantments let you fill the battlefield with fully magical do-dads, and 
the list goes on. "But what if I want to metaphorically punch my opponent?!" I 
hear you asking. In comes a new card type: forms.

Form's are magical close, combat attacks. If Chandra throws the fire at you, 
that's Fireball, but if her hand bursts into flame and she knocks your teeth
out, that's a form. If Jace gives you a funny look and learns that your password
is P@ssw0rd#, that's Peek, but if Jace run's up to you, grabs your skull with 
with his boney fingers, and you forget that your mom loves you, that's a form.

You can imagine how those two different modes of attacking your opponent might 
provide signifigant draw backs in some cases and not in others; if Chandra see's
a giant in her way, she might opt for Fireball over a flame punch.

### Mechanics

You can think of forms kind of like you would creatures(Forms arent Creatures).
In fact, one of my first attempts at building this type was to build them as
creatures. Forms attack and block like creatures, and can block and be blocked
by creatures. Similarly, creature keywords like haste, trample, deathtouch, etc
function the way you'd expect to with creatures. There are a few things that 
seperate creatures and forms though.

1. Instead of the standard Power/Toughness, forms have three attributes called 
power(the left most star shape), overwhelm(the center shield), and uses(the 
rightmost circle). 

Power is the amount of damage the form deals during combat.

Overwhelm is a bit like toughness except instead of the form dying when it takes 
damage equal to it's overwhelm, that much marked damage is removed from the card 
and it loses a use. 

Uses represent the number of remaining... uses the form has. Uses are typically 
removed at the end of combat if a form attacked or blocked that combat(even if 
that form is no longer an attacker or blocker). Forms can also gain or lose uses 
in other ways. Uses aren't counters(thank you proliferate); though, you should 
track them with dice. When a form has 0 or fewer uses, it is destoryed.

2. When a form you control takes damage, you take that much damage. Destroying
forms doesn't mean that their controller also loses the game.

3. You may only attack or block with one form each combat.

4. FORMS ARENT CREATURES! Lightning Helix doesn't 
hit forms, but Lightning Bolt does.